The Band of the Hawk is a mercenary group founded by the "White Hawk" Griffith.
Griffith initially establishes the Band of the Hawk as a young teenager, attracting several loyal members. Guts then joins the Hawks during their early years, not long after they start gaining fame in several pitched battles. The Band rises to prominence during Midland's One Hundred Year War against Chuder, and is integrated into Midland's regular army following Griffith's promotion to viscount. They are instrumental in several battles, most prominently in the retaking of the Chuder-held Midland fortress of Doldrey. Subsequently, the Band's commanders are allowed peerage in Midland's nobility.
However, after Guts departs from the Band and Griffith sleeps with Princess Charlotte in a moment of weakness, the mercenary leader is captured and tortured under the orders of the King of Midland, and the Hawks are forced to flee, exiled. Now a shell of its former self, the Band's remaining members are led by Casca, and one year later, Guts, having heard of his former comrades' plight, returns to rescue Griffith. They ultimately succeed; however, now crippled and maimed, Griffith activates his Crimson Behelit, triggering the Eclipse. After some deliberation, he sacrifices the Band of the Hawk; in exchange, he becomes Femto, the fifth member of the God Hand. While Guts, Casca and Rickert survive, most of the Hawks are devoured by Apostles and consequently the Band of the Hawk is informally disbanded. Afterwards, Rickert pays respect to the fallen by crafting the Hill of Swords in their memory.
The Band of the Hawk is originally a very meager, admittedly "ragtag" gathering of thieves who are drawn to the then teen-aged genius swordsman Griffith. Its first principal members include the former coal miner Pippin, a gifted circus performer-turned soldier Judeau, and Corkus, who was once a leader of his own gang of thieves. After Griffith rescues Casca from an attempt of rape, they gradually become more distinguished, and in a matter of years are renowned as the "grim reapers of the battlefield". Their valor is said to be such that a three-months long skirmish is reduced to a mere three days by their intervention, and under Griffith's leadership their numbers grow to 500 by the time they happen to encounter the renegade mercenary Guts.
Griffith is impressed by the young swordsman's triumph over Bazuso and decides to challenge him to a duel. Defeating Guts twice with his sword's grace and ingenious strategy, Griffith formally inducts him as the captain of the Band's raiders, a position he occupies for over three years, by which time the Band's numbers have grown tenfold.
Most notably, their success in the Hundred Year War against the Empire of Chuder, succeeding where much larger armies had failed in claiming victory for Midland, allows their commanders, the young Rickert included, peerage in the nobility; Griffith is elevated to the rank of White Phoenix General. This does not last, however, as while Griffith's assassination plot allows him to eliminate all of his political enemies at once, including the queen, his first (and instantaneous) defeat at Guts' hands, as well as the swordsman's immediate defection, cause him to sink into depression and sneak into the princess's chambers to sleep with her. This act, deemed treasonous, results in Griffith's capture and subsequent torture under the orders of the King of Midland, and the Band of the Hawk is exiled.
Their leader now imprisoned, and their numbers dropped to less than a fifth in a single year, the Hawks are on the verge of collapse despite the near-equally capable Casca's attempts at keeping the Band alive. Only when Guts returns is the Band's morale restored. However, by the time they rescue Griffith, he has been tortured to such an extent during his imprisonment in the Tower of Rebirth that he is incapable of speaking, standing, or even holding a sword. To make matters worse, the apostle Wyald and his Black Dog Knights begin to pursue the Band, having been sent by the King of Midland to eliminate them once all other attempts to do so had come to naught. They manage to repel the forces, Guts pulling off a last-minute win against the apostle leader, but with Griffith now rendered an invalid, the Hawks cannot bring themselves to celebrate.
After escaping from the rest of the Band in an unattended horse-drawn carriage, the desperate, now inscrutably tormented Griffith activates his Crimson Behelit and summons the God Hand, instigating the Eclipse. The Hawks are branded for sacrifice, giving Griffith the means to transcend his humanity and be reborn as the final God Hand member: Femto. Only Guts and Casca are left after the bloodbath, though their suffering is prolonged as Griffith violates the latter in front of Guts, who loses his forearm and the use of his right eye attempting to save her. This results in the regression of Casca's mind to that of an infant and the mutation of her unborn child by Griffith's seed. Guts, furious over Griffith's act of betrayal, vows revenge on his former leader and declares a solitary war on the God Hand and their apostles. With every Hawk now dead excluding Guts, Casca, and Rickert, who was not present at the site of the Eclipse, the Band is informally disbanded. Rickert pays his respects to the fallen by crafting the Hill of Swords in their memory.
The Band of the Hawk is possibly inspired by the real-life mercenary band, Compagnia Bianca del Falco, which in Italian translates to "Company of the White Falcon". The band was founded in the 14th century by John Hawkwood, whom Griffith himself may have been based on.
The Apostle Spawns are humans who have been transformed by an Apostle with their demonic powers, normally serving as a familiar to the one who sired it.
Some Apostles have the ability to transform humans into familiars to serve them, each Apostle Spawn usually having an appearance that reflects its creator. Like true Apostles, Apostle Spawns revert to human form after death.
The Count transformed Zondark into an Apostle Spawn by transferring a part of himself, a slug, into his servant so that he could seek his revenge while his body was gradually absorbed by the slug. Because the slug is an extension of the Count, he can see and speak through his offshoot even after the host's head is destroyed.
While Rosine normally transforms children into her vision of what elves look like, she can also turn adult men into giant insect-based creatures to guard her domain from intruders.
The Apostle known as the Egg of the Perfect World can create a Spawn by using one of his tendrils to inject his power through a ideal subject. Though a weak Apostle, the Egg creates physically powerful Spawns whose forms reflect their faith, such as the leader of a pagan cult becoming a goat-headed satyr, as well as Mozgus and his disciples becoming angelic in form.
After transcending his humanity a second time, the giant monster Ganishka had unintentionally crushed most of his army under his feet. The crushed corpses mutated into monstrous head-like tentacle creatures that all resemble Ganishka's head. These monsters devoured the remaining survivors of the Kushan invasion army before they attacked the Neo Band of the Hawk. After the World Transformation began, they ceased to be.
The Elves of Misty Valley is the 96th chapter of the Berserk manga series, written and illustrated by Kentaro Miura.
The tree groans out the word "Sacrifice", confusing the young girl but eliciting no reaction Guts. The tree attempts a pincer movement with its branches, striking from both the left and right. With two fast swings, Guts cuts them out of the air, then leaps away with blinding speed. With complete composure, he dodges the onslaught of oncoming branch strikes until he runs straight into a well-placed bunch of branches, trapping him mere feet from the tree's main face.
His head slumps down as though defeated, but Guts has a manic smile on his face; he's jammed his metal arm right into the tree's face's mouth. He pulls a metal switch on its side, and the metal hand flips down below the arm, revealing a wide hole in the forearm. From this hole, a cannonball bursts forth, blowing out the entire back half of the tree. In the same moment, Guts has readied his sword and brings it down on the monstrous plant, cutting it clean in half.
The young girl watches the entire scene in awe and horror. She stares at the destroyed tree, from which small spirits emerge. Guts, whose last sword swing's momentum sent him tumbling onto his back, looks up at the sky, where the clouds part and the sun shines through. He has not seen the sun for three days.
The rays of sunshine touch the spirits, making them slowly dissolve into thin air.Another spirit, still incorporated into the tree's bark, frightens the girl, but a chestnut shell is dropped onto its face by a small elf, the reluctant Guts' companion, Puck. She screams in terror at the elf and claims that he's from a place called the Misty Valley. Neither Guts nor Puck seem to have any idea of what she's talking about.
Deeper in the forest, the surviving bandits run for their lives, further and further from the demonic tree. Just as they begin to feel safe, a thick mist forms around them. One of the bandits points directs the leader's attention upwards, towards the forest's canopy. High above them, dozens of what appear to be elves are flying this way and that, leaving trails of light in their wake.
Their leader is seemingly an elf, though compared to real elves she is gigantic; she is the size of a young girl. She has moth-like antennae and eyes, with wings to match. She is also capable of speech, and she tells the bandits that they have stepped into a child's fairy tale.
Mozgus' Disciples are henchmen of Mozgus. They were initially outcasts from society, tortured and mutilated souls, too disfigured to live with the rest of humanity.
During Mozgus' rise to power, he rescued several tortured souls, outcasts from society, too disfigured to live with the rest of humanity. Mozgus gave each of them a purpose and taught them not to abhor their mutations, but to see them as gifts from God. With his guidance and perseverance, they each became both civil and loyal to Mozgus. He now employs them as his personal bodyguards and torturers. They would do anything for their master.
As Apostle spawn, Mozgus' Disciples share the common feature of enhanced strength, speed, stamina and angelic wings. They are a fearsome group, as they do not fear death; willingly doing anything their master orders them to. They are also expert torturers, having gained experience from being employed for such tasks by Mozgus countless times. They seem to be good at using their torture implements as actual combat tools, and not only that, they are able to strategize and temporarily overpower stronger opponents like Guts.
Mozgus' disciples are introduced during the attack on Mozgus' carriage, counterattacking the offending vigilante soldiers with horrific and gory results. The onlooking refugees watch the vigilantes suffer the same fate they intended to avenge at the disciples' hands. From this point on, they are seen as torturers whenever Mozgus requires them, until their nature as Apostle spawn becomes apparent as they do battle with Guts.
Upon defeat, none of them express displeasure with their deaths, being thankful to Mozgus and God.
But most of all, I am grateful for having met Lord Mozgus.
Mozgus' second in command and one of two members of the group who speaks, recruited by the inquisitor as a child when left to die by his family who could no longer afford his treatment. While the most normal-looking of the disciples, the Crow suffers from both a weak immune system and photo-sensitivity to the point his that skin festers from being in prolonged sunlight. Because of this, he wears a complete black bodysuit of red colored silk that covers his entire body. He covers his face with a crow-like plague-mask, with dark-toned glasses and a copper beak for respiratory means. His torture device of choice is a man catcher, a spiked collar on a pole intended for removing a mounted soldier from his horse, and used against heretics with great efficiency. During the start of the Incarnation Ceremony, the Crow pleaded for Mozgus to escape while he and the others hold the door to chantry. He also was the only one in the room to see the Egg of the Perfect World before becoming an Apostle spawn along with his comrades.
As an Apostle Spawn, the Crow gained the common feature of enhanced strength, speed, stamina and angelic wings, also gaining personal benefits from the transformation. His body suit becomes a part of him, his mask now his face, with his feet transformed into functional talons. He also gained an ability to shoot a cascade of feathers against opponents like flechettes, an ability he used against Guts.
The Crow remained with Angel Face, Bubblehead and the Imp to fight Guts, while sending the Twins with Mozgus. After a fearsome battle with Guts, believing the Egg of the Perfect World as a miracle, the Crow thanks God that he had witness to his miracle but a final lunge that resulted with his throat sliced. The Crow is seen one last time as God Hand Void's shadow vessel.
The smallest of the disciples and the second of the group who speaks, his eyes bluish. His face is split in the middle from his lower jaw up to the nose, resembling a very grave cleft palate and two horn-like features on his forehead. He is sensitive about them, demonstrated when he told Casca to stop touching them when he led her to the torture room. He was also the one who led Nina there. His weapon of choice is a plier in each hand, to be used against heretics by pulling out their eyes. He was alongside with the others turned into an Apostle spawn.
As a spawn, he gained the common feature of enhanced strength, speed, stamina and angelic wings. He also received a higher level of speed than the others because of his short stature. He remained to fight Guts with the others, using his high speed to his advantage, but in the end he sustained heavy damage from the mini-bombs and was defeated.
He was seen one last time as God Hand Ubik's shadow vessel.
The muscle of the group. His mutation was to his face, which doesn't seems to age like the rest of his body. The results being a man with a child's face, possibly with a child's level of understanding and IQ. He is silent and built like a bodybuilder. His weapon of choice is the wheel of torture, similar to the ones Mozgus condemns heretics to during travels. He was one of the people who held the doors when the demons of the area awoke. He was turned into a spawn like the rest of the disciples.
As a spawn, he gained the common feature of enhanced strength, speed, stamina and angelic wings. But on a personal level, he gained way more strength than the others with visible increase in muscle mass. He remained behind to fight Guts. In a seemingly victorious battle, getting some good hits, he eventually lost to him.
He was seen one last time as God Hand Conrad's shadow vessel.
The tallest of the group and seemingly oldest, a strong man with a misshapen skull. His weapon of choice is a chain with a set of razor sharp jaws on the end. Turned like the others into a spawn.
As an apostle spawn, he gained the common feature of enhanced strength, speed, stamina and angelic wings. He also gained an increased stamina beyond his comrades, evident when Guts cuts his right arm off and he did not seem to notice or care.
He was seen one last time as God Hand Slan's shadow vessel.
The duo of the group, misshapen individuals with one functional red eye each and appear as mirror images of each others. Their mutation is lowered IQ, mainly because of their slightly misshapen skulls, wearing masks that conceal their squinting eyes. The twins enjoy playing with birds when not needed to torture, appearing to have a fascination for anything that flies in the air, and the fact that they can see Puck is the first hint towards the fact that the disciples are as atypical as they look. Their weapon of choice are oversized saws which they can combine to create an effective scissor-like weapon. They were turned into Apostle spawn with the others.
As apostles, they gained the common feature of enhanced strength, speed, stamina and angelic wings. They were assigned to guard Lord Mozgus on the Bird's orders and left the scene. They witnessed the destruction of the tower and on Mozgus' orders, protected the followers from the possessed pagans. When Isidro saved Casca from being burned at the stake, they went after them. They fought with the group and were defeated by the combined efforts of Puck and Jerome, though the twins die smiling with the knowledge they aided Mozgus to the very end. 
